Speaking of wild ideas.
Let me ask you about the thing we mentioned previously,
which is this interstellar object, a more, more Uhhuh,
could it be space junk from a distant alien civilization?
You can't immediately discount that by saying absolutely.
It cannot. Anything can be space junk. I mean, from that point of view,
can any of the ER belt objects we see could be space, space, junk,
anything on the night sky can in principle be space junk.
And Kiper belt would catch Intella objects potentially in like force them into
Norbit if they're like small enough, uh.
Not the ER belt itself,
but you can imagine like Jupyter family comments being captured. Uh, you know,
so, so you can actually capture things.
It's even easier to do this very early in the solar system,
like early in the solar system's life while it's still in a cluster of stars.
Um, it's unavoidable that you capture debris,
whether it be natural debris or unnatural debris,
or just debris of some kind from other stars that
it's like a daycare center, right.
Like everybody passes their infections onto other kids. Yeah. Um, you know,
or more, more, there's been a lot of discussion about,
there's been a lot of interest in this over like, is it, is it aliens or is it,
but let's like, if you just kind of look at the facts,
like what we know about it is it's kind of like a weird shape and it also
accelerated, you know, right. Like that's the two, those are,
those are the two interesting, uh, things about it. There are,
um,
there are puzzles about it and perhaps the most, uh,
daring resolution to this puzzle is that it's not, you know,
aliens or it's not like a rock, it's actually a piece of hydrogen ice.
So this is a friend of mine, uh, you know,
Dar Seligman and Greg Laughlin came up with this, uh, idea, uh,
where that in giant molecular clouds that are just clouds of
hydrogen, helium gas that live in, um,
live throughout the galaxy at their cores.
You can condense ice to become these hydrogen, you know,
icebergs, if you will. And then, uh,
that explains many of the aspects of, uh, in fact,
I think that explains all of the mystery,
how it becomes elongated mm-hmm <affirmative> because basically the hydrogen eye
sublimate and kind of like a bar of soap that, you know,
slowly kind of elongates as you, uh, as you strip away the,
of the surface layers, uh,
how it was able to accelerate because of a jet that is produced from, you know,
the hydrogen coming off of it, but you can't see it cuz it's hydrogen gas,
like all of this stuff, uh, kind of falls together nicely. Mm-hmm,
<affirmative>, I'm, I'm intrigued by that idea truly because it's like,
if that's true, that's a new type of astrophysical object.
And it would be produced by, uh, what's the monster that produced it initially,
that kind of object. Uh.
So this is giant molecular M clouds they're everywhere. I mean,
they are the fact that they exist is not, are they.
Rogue clouds or are they part of like an or cloud?
No clouds. Yeah. They're just floating about, yeah.
So if you go like a lot of people, imagine the galaxy as being a,
you know, a bunch of stars, right. And they're just a orbiting. Right.
But the truth is if you fly between stars, you, you run into clouds, uh.
That don't have any large object that creates orbits.
They're just floating about they're just floating,
but why are they floating together?
Or they just float together for time and not.
Well, so these are the, these eventually become the nurseries of stars.
So as they, as they cool, they contract and uh, you know,
then collapse into stars or into groups of stars. But some of them, the,
the starless, um, molecular clouds,
according to the calculations that Dar and Greg did, can,
uh, can create these like icy of hydrogen ice. I wonder.
Why they would be flying so fast.
Cause it seemed to be moving pretty fast at a more, a.
More, yeah. Oh, uh, that's just because of their acceleration due to, uh,
due to the sun, if you stop, I mean, it's like
take something really far away, let it go.
And the sun is here by the time it comes close to the sun rights.
Good moving pretty fast. So that's an attractive explanation, I think,
not so much because, uh, it's cool, but it makes a clear prediction.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> right.
Of when ver Ruben observatory comes online next year or
so we will discover many, many more of these objects. Right.
And they have, um, so I like,
I like theories that are falsifiable, right? Not just, not just testable,
but falsifiable it's, it's good to have a falsifiable theory where you can say,
that's not true. Mm-hmm <affirmative> uh, aliens is a,
is one that's fundamentally difficult to say, no, that's not aliens. Right.
Well, the interesting thing to me,
if you look at one alien civilization mm-hmm <affirmative>,
and then we look at the things that produces in terms of,
if we were to try to detect the alien civilization,
the there's like, uh, say there's 10 billion aliens.
That would probably be, Hmm.
Trillions of dumb drone type things produced by the
aliens. And there'd be many, many,
many more orders and magnitude of junk mm-hmm <affirmative>. So like,
if you were to look for an alien civilization in my mind,
you would be looking for the junk that's the more efficient thing to look for
that. So I'm not saying a more, more has any characteristics of space junk,
but it kind of opened my eyes,
like to the idea that we shouldn't necessarily be looking to
the queen of the, an colony. We should be looking at a, I don't know,
I don't know, like,
like traces of alien life that doesn't look intelligent in any way may
not even look like life. It could be just garbage.
We should be looking for garbage.
Just generically, just generic, well.
Garbage that's produceable by, uh, unnatural, uh,
forces that, I mean, for me,
at least that was kind of interesting because if you have a successful alien
civilization that we will be producing many more orders and magnitude of junk,
and that would be easier potentially to detect well.
So you have to produce the junk, but you have to also launch launch it.
So this is the, this is where, I mean, let's, let's imagine disposal. Yeah.
<laugh> but let's imagine we are a successful civilization that,
you know, has made it to space. We clearly have. Right. Um, and yes,
we're in the infancy of that pursuit, but you know, we've launched,
I don't know how many satellites, um,
probably if you count GPS satellites, it must be at least that.
It's, it's certainly thousands. I don't know if it's over 10,000. Yeah.
But it's on that order.
But it's on that, like a large order of magnitude.
How many of the things that we've launched will ever leave the solar system?
I think two, two so far. Well maybe the Voyager,
the Voyager one Voyager two. I don't know if the pioneer, so maybe three, like,
oh, there's also.
A Tesla roast out there.
Uh, that, that one, it will never leave the solar system. It'll just,
I think that one will eventually collide with Mars.
That can be SpaceX's first Mars, destination. Um,
but look, so there is an energetic cost to Intertel or travel,
uh, which is really hard to overcome. And when, when we think about, you know,
generically, what do we look for in an alien civilization?
Oftentimes we tend to imagine that the thing you look for is a thing that we're
doing right now. Yeah. Right. So I think that, um, you know, if I,
if I look at the future, right. I mean for a while, like, okay, if aliens are,
are out there, they must be broadcasting and radio. Right, right. That radio,
um, you know,
the amount that we broadcast in radio has diminished tremendously.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> in the last 50 years,
but we're doing a lot more computation. Right.
What are the signs of computation? Like, that's a good,
that's an interesting question to ask. Right. Um, where, I don't know.
I think something on the order of a few percent of the entire electrical grid
last year went to mining Bitcoin mm-hmm <affirmative> right. Uh.
You know, well there and the, yeah, the, the,
there could be a lot of in the future,
different consequences of the computation, which I mean, by I'm biased,
but it could be robotics. It could be artificial intelligence.
So we may be looking for intelligent
looking objects. Like that's what I meant by probes.
Like things that move in kind of artificial way.
But the emergence of AI is not on if right.
It's it's happening at right in front of our eyes
and the energetic costs associated with that are becoming, you know,
a tangible problem.
So I think if you imagine kind of extrapolating that into the future,
what are the, you know, what becomes the bottleneck, right.
The bottleneck might be powering, you know,
powering the AI broadly speaking, not one AI,
but powering that entire AI ecosystem. Right. So I don't know.
I think, you know, space junk isn't is of, um,
it's an interesting idea, but it's,
it's heavily influenced by like sci-fi 1950s where by 2020,
we're all like flying to the moon. Um,
and so we produce a lot of space junk. I'm not
sure if that's the pathway that alien civilizations take,
so never seen an alien civilization. That's.
True. But if your, uh, theory of chill <laugh> yeah. Uh,
turns out to be true. And then we don't, you know, we don't necessarily explore,
we seize the exploration phase of a, a like alien civilizations,
quickly seize the exploration phase of their, um,
of their efforts then, uh,
then perhaps they'll just be chilling in a particular space expanding slowly,
but then using up a lot of resources and then have to have a lot of garbage
disposal that sends stuff out. Yeah. And the other, you know,
the other idea was that it could be a relay that, uh,
you'll almost have like the, these GPS, like markers that send throughout,
which I think is kind of interesting. It's, uh,
similar to this probe idea of sending, um,
a large number of probes out to measure gravitational, um,
to, to measure basically yeah. The, the gravitational field, essentially.
I mean,
a lot of people at Caltech or in MIT are trying to measure gravitational fields
and there's, there's a lot of ideas of sending, uh, um,
stuff out there that accurately measures those gravitational fields, uh,
to have a greater understanding of the early universe.
But then you might realize that communication through gravitation through
gravity is actually much more effective than, than radio was. For example,
something like that. And then you send out, I mean, okay. Yeah.
If you're an alien civilization,
that's able to have gigantic masses mm-hmm, <affirmative> like,
basically we're.
Getting there as a, as a civilization.
No, we're not, not even close.
Well, I mean.
Okay. You're okay. I, I mean, like be able to sort of, uh,
play with black holes, that kind of thing.
So we're talking about whole nother different order of magnitude of masses.
Then it, it may be very effective to send signals via gravitational ways.
I actually,
my sense is that all of these things are genuinely difficult to
predict, you know, and I don't mean like to, to kind of shy away. I just,
I really mean if you think, if you take, um,
imagination of what the future looked like from, you know,
500 years ago. Yeah. Right. It's just,
it is so hard to conceive of the impossible. Right. So, um,
it's, it's almost like, um, you know,
it's almost limiting to try and imagine things that are an order of magnitude,
uh, you know, or two orders of magnitude ahead in terms of per progress,
just because, you know, you mentioned cars before, you know yeah.
If you were to ask people what they wanted in 1870,
it's faster buggies <laugh> right. So, um, so I, I think the whole,
like kind of, you know,
alien conversation inevitably gets,
gets limited by, by our entire kind of collective, um,
astrophysical, lack of imagination.